packages/css/README.md, before:

# CSS definitions of the web platform

This package contains CSS property definitions scraped from the latest versions of web platform specifications in [webref](https://github.com/w3c/webref), with fixes applied to ensure ([almost](#guarantees)) all CSS value definitions can be parsed with [CSSTree](https://github.com/csstree/csstree).

# API

The async `listAll()` method resolves with an object where the keys are spec shortnames, and the values are the data for that spec. Example:

```js
const css = require('@webref/css');

const parsedFiles = await css.listAll();
for (const [shortname, data] of Object.entries(parsedFiles)) {
  // do something with the json object
}
```

CSS fragments that appear in the objects, in other words the contents of the `properties[].value`, `properties[].newValues`, `atrules[].value`, `atrules[].descriptors[].value`, `selectors[].value` and `values[].value` properties can be parsed with the [CSSTree Value Definition Syntax parser](https://github.com/csstree/csstree/blob/master/docs/definition-syntax.md#value-definition-syntax). Example:

```js
const css = require('@webref/css');
const { definitionSyntax } = require('css-tree');

const parsedFiles = await css.listAll();
for (const [shortname, data] of Object.entries(parsedFiles)) {
  for (const property of data.properties) {
    if (property.value) {
      try {
        const ast = definitionSyntax.parse(property.value);
        // do something with the ast
      }
      catch {
        // one of the few value definitions that cannot yet be parsed by CSSTree
      }
    }
  }
}
```

# Guarantees

The following guarantees are provided by this package:
- All values in CSS files can be parsed by the version of [CSSTree](https://github.com/csstree/csstree) used in `peerDependencies` in `package.json`.
- No duplicate definitions of CSS properties provided that CSS extracts of [delta specs](https://github.com/w3c/browser-specs/#seriescomposition) are not taken into account (such extracts end with `-n.json`, where `n` is a level number).
- CSS extracts contain a base definition of all CSS properties that get extended by other CSS property definitions (those for which `newValues` is set).
- All entries in CSS files that do not extend a base definition link back to their actual definition in the spec. In other words, all entries under `properties[]`, `properties[].values[]`, `selectors[]`, `atrules[]` and `values[]` have an `href` key that contains an absolute URL with fragment, except properties that that have a `newValues` key, at-rules that neither have a `prose` nor a `value` key, and definitions of a [delta spec](https://github.com/w3c/browser-specs/#seriescomposition) that completely override a definition in a previous level.

Commit message:

Replace most CSS tests by analysis with Strudy
Strudy now integrates a set of analyses that were previously done in Webref.
It also extends slightly the duplication guarantees, which used to be
restricted to properties.

This update replaces most tests with running Strudy. What remains is tests that
assess that syntaxes can be parsed with css-tree. These validity tests would
better be done in Strudy too in practice, but that's not yet the case.

Note: This will report two new problems that need fixing (duplicate type
constructs in `css-color-5` and `css-color-hdr`). To be addressed with a patch.

packages/css/README.md, after:

# CSS definitions of the web platform

This package contains CSS property definitions scraped from the latest versions of web platform specifications in [webref](https://github.com/w3c/webref), with fixes applied to ensure ([almost](#guarantees)) all CSS value definitions can be parsed with [CSSTree](https://github.com/csstree/csstree).

# API

The async `listAll()` method resolves with an object where the keys are spec shortnames, and the values are the data for that spec. Example:

```js
const css = require('@webref/css');

const parsedFiles = await css.listAll();
for (const [shortname, data] of Object.entries(parsedFiles)) {
  // do something with the json object
}
```

CSS fragments that appear in the objects, in other words the contents of the `properties[].value`, `properties[].newValues`, `atrules[].value`, `atrules[].descriptors[].value`, `selectors[].value` and `values[].value` properties can be parsed with the [CSSTree Value Definition Syntax parser](https://github.com/csstree/csstree/blob/master/docs/definition-syntax.md#value-definition-syntax). Example:

```js
const css = require('@webref/css');
const { definitionSyntax } = require('css-tree');

const parsedFiles = await css.listAll();
for (const [shortname, data] of Object.entries(parsedFiles)) {
  for (const property of data.properties) {
    if (property.value) {
      try {
        const ast = definitionSyntax.parse(property.value);
        // do something with the ast
      }
      catch {
        // one of the few value definitions that cannot yet be parsed by CSSTree
      }
    }
  }
}
```

# Guarantees

The following guarantees are provided by this package:
- All values in CSS files can be parsed by the version of [CSSTree](https://github.com/csstree/csstree) used in `peerDependencies` in `package.json`.
- No duplicate definitions of entries in CSS files provided that CSS extracts of [delta specs](https://github.com/w3c/browser-specs/#seriescomposition) are not taken into account (such extracts end with `-n.json`, where `n` is a level number). The term "entries" includes CSS properties, at-rules, selectors, types and functions. Please note that specs may still extend entries defined elsewhere (to define new values for CSS properties, or new selectors for at-rules).
- CSS extracts contain a base definition of all CSS properties that get extended by other CSS property definitions (those for which `newValues` is set).
- All entries in CSS files that do not extend a base definition link back to their actual definition in the spec. In other words, all entries under `properties[]`, `properties[].values[]`, `selectors[]`, `atrules[]` and `values[]` have an `href` key that contains an absolute URL with fragment, except properties that that have a `newValues` key, at-rules that neither have a `prose` nor a `value` key, and definitions of a [delta spec](https://github.com/w3c/browser-specs/#seriescomposition) that completely override a definition in a previous level.
