ed/csspatches/README.md, before:

# CSS patches

The folder contains two types of patches applied to the CSS extracts scraped from specs during curation to produce the `@webref/css` package:

- The [`syntax-patches.js`](./syntax-patches.js) file contains a list of syntaxes for situations where that syntax cannot be automatically extracted from the underlying spec because it is defined in non-machine-readable prose. These patches are usually permanent in that they cover situations where it is unlikely that the underlying spec will be updated to make the syntax more explicit.
- The `*.json.patch` files contains extract file patches applied to CSS extracts. These patches are intended to be temporary while the spec gets fixed, and are typically associated with an issue or pull request raised against the underlying spec. These patches typically break as specs get updated. For details on how to create and update file patches, please see the [Web IDL patches documentation](../idlpatches/README.md).

On top of these patches, note that curation also drops duplicate definitions through the [`tools/drop-css-property-duplicates.js`](../../tools/drop-css-property-duplicates.js) script which handles situations where definitions in one spec override definitions in another spec (for example, definitions in CSS modules overrride definitions in CSS 2).

Commit message:

Add an issue template to suggest CSS syntax patches
Goal is to have a formatted structure to gather the information we need. That
structure could perhaps be leveraged later on to automate the creation of a
pull request afterwards (as done for specs in browser-specs).

ed/csspatches/README.md, after:

# CSS patches

The folder contains two types of patches applied to the CSS extracts scraped from specs during curation to produce the `@webref/css` package:

- The [`syntax-patches.js`](./syntax-patches.js) file contains a list of syntaxes for situations where that syntax cannot be automatically extracted from the underlying spec because it is defined in non-machine-readable prose. These patches are usually permanent in that they cover situations where it is unlikely that the underlying spec will be updated to make the syntax more explicit. To propose a new syntax patch, please use the [dedicated issue template](https://github.com/w3c/webref/issues/new?template=css-syntax-patch.yml).
- The `*.json.patch` files contains extract file patches applied to CSS extracts. These patches are intended to be temporary while the spec gets fixed, and are typically associated with an issue or pull request raised against the underlying spec. These patches typically break as specs get updated. For details on how to create and update file patches, please see the [Web IDL patches documentation](../idlpatches/README.md).

On top of these patches, note that curation also drops duplicate definitions through the [`tools/drop-css-property-duplicates.js`](../../tools/drop-css-property-duplicates.js) script which handles situations where definitions in one spec override definitions in another spec (for example, definitions in CSS modules overrride definitions in CSS 2).
